---
layout: columns
title:  "Kristen Fong: Venturing out 'Into the New World'"
name: "kristen"
categories:
- columns
---

I arrived at my apartment at 1:59 a.m. on June 10, 2012, so tired I felt nauseated and my body was shaking. It took me a good few minutes to get the key into the door and open it.

Yet somehow I remembered to text James Barragan, the editor in chief of the Daily Bruin at the time, that I had gotten back safely. Yes, I scrolled back two years of texts to find that exact date and time.

I had just spent 36 hours straight – with a four-hour nap somewhere in between – in our stuffy and windowless office designing Graduation Issue (aka my first issue as design director). A few tear-soaked napkins, a broken pair of Panda Express chopsticks and a now-overplayed “Glee” playlist were casualties in the process.

Those 36 hours were a character-defining experience. They also came to largely define my time not just at The Bruin, but also at UCLA.

I finally felt like I belonged and like I was good at something. It’s something I never would have expected to experience upon my first encounter with the Daily Bruin. When I first arrived at UCLA, I was a sprightly, ambitious pre-med student ready to take on the new world of possibilities before me – The Bruin being one of them. But, on Sept. 20, 2010, I was almost discouraged from joining the Daily Bruin.

I arrived at the Enormous Activities Fair, not letting the heat or the crowd of potential competitors deter me, and went straight for The Bruin’s booth.

No one was at the booth.

“Maybe they don’t want any recruits and fate is telling me I shouldn't join – stick to pre-med clubs,” I thought, feeling quite disheartened since I loved working at my high school paper.

About an hour and too many free samples of Jamba Juice and Taco Bell later, I decided to give The Bruin a second chance. Two staffers were there this time around. I told them I wanted to be a designer and got a flyer. They told me good luck, and a few weeks later I was an intern. That was the beginning of my journey into the world of the Daily Bruin. Maybe it was all meant to be.

To some people, the Daily Bruin may just be an oversize, inky-finger-inducing paper with a crossword puzzle. To me, it is the definition of hard work and dedication. There are awards as proof (AAJA Trivia Grasshopper Champs two years in a row, hell yeah!). But the people I’ve had the chance to work with are the real winners. I give so much credit for who I am today to the family I’ve created at The Bruin.

They have taught me how to be a leader. How to be confident. How to be a better designer (at least I hope so after designing at least 100 layouts). How to accept mistakes and move on. How to write (though this is my first, and last, byline). How to communicate with 30 people at once.

And some not so resume-worthy things that are just as important. How to take care of someone when they’re drunk. How to know what makes me beautiful. How to unleash the K-pop fangirl within me (cue “Fantastic Baby,” “I Got a Boy,” "Into the New World," “Give It To Me,” “Growl,” “Something” – stop me now or I will convert you into a K-pop fan). How to awkwardly dance in a flash mob. How to stalk or meet celebrities (though meeting CeeLo Green was entirely by chance). And most importantly, how to be myself. I could go on, but that’ll just make this go beyond the inch count, and that’s never a good thing – I would know.

I’ve changed a lot. Coming into UCLA, I was 100 percent pre-med. Two years later, after flunking out of the first physiological science upper-division course, I was thinking I would switch to Design | Media Arts, but it was too late. The summer before my senior year, I thought I could somehow get a master’s degree in architecture with my biology degree and print design background. Right now that’s my goal, unless I get into the music business.

Although my career prospects kept changing throughout my time at UCLA, the Daily Bruin remained the one constant. Even though I will be losing that constant, what I’ve gained from it will stay with me as I get thrown into the scary world of adulthood. Help!

*Fong was design senior staff from 2013-2014, design director from 2012-2013, a design staffer from 2011-2012 and a design contributor from 2010-2011.*
