---
layout: columns
title:  "Loic Hostetter: A chapter in a California love story"
name: "loic"
categories:
- columns
---

This is my California love story.

It began with John Alexander Abbay, a Kentuckian and blacksmith, and Nancy Draper, a Missouri native who came to California as a young girl.

John came out to California in 1849 in a covered wagon. He soon met Nancy, and some years later, in 1857, they married in Santa Ana.

The newlyweds moved to Yolo County. John opened a blacksmith shop and Nancy worked on what a local paper called “the famous rose arbor.”

The two would be remembered in newspaper records for a meeting at John’s blacksmith shop, where local residents voted to approve the construction of a switching station to bring the Vaca Valley and Clear Lake Railroad through the town. For his donation of 40 acres of land to allow the progress of the railway, local businessman Theodore Winters would be the town’s namesake.

Today, many generations after John and Nancy made their home in Winters, my family is still incapable of staying away from California. Despite our upbringing in the Midwest, both my sisters, just like our father, received University of California degrees – a group I look forward to joining in a few short days.

I thought about John and Nancy often last summer on long drives from Sacramento to Los Angeles, a trip I would make as often as possible while juggling an internship at the Sacramento Bee with my responsibilities at The Bruin.

Their story spoke to me, as many of my journalism experiences have, of California’s great promise, its forward-looking attitudes. But my contemporary understanding of the Golden State is one grounded in dualities – in its tragedies and successes, in progressive hopes and unequal realities.

But the more I contemplate my time here, I see that my understanding of this state is made up more by the patchwork of narratives I’ve written for California newspapers than by any individual arc of my own.

It’s the story of Simon Martinez, a 34-year-old veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom who became homeless on the streets of San Diego after his third deployment. Martinez, who hoped to start a trucking company with a friend after leaving the Navy, returned with post-traumatic stress disorder, unwilling for years to seek treatment.

Only a month after meeting Martinez for an assignment for the U-T San Diego, I wrote the obituary of a young San Diegan Marine in Afghanistan, killed with two others by an Afghan man wearing a policeman’s uniform.

Scott Dickinson, a staff sergeant at the time of his death, joined the military after high school and looked forward to leaving Afghanistan for a post in an embassy, where he would have more time to spend with his wife.

Writing about these two faces of the United States' foreign wars – conflicts whose longevity defies the public attention span – left me with few conclusions and deep frustration. After so many years of war, a constant presence from the childhoods of so many millennials, the most visible products of the conflict at home were headlines recording the latest casualties and documenting the failing safety net for our returning men and women.

I also found such dualities on the California border – a little closer to home but no easier to process.

Take the stories of Javier Sicilia – a Mexican poet and journalist mourning the death of his son amid drug-related violence in the country – and Tru and Don Miller, parents who moved from Orange County to Baja California’s Guadalupe Valley after their son’s fatal car accident.

After his son’s passing, Sicilia drove the length of the United States to protest cartel-related violence in a caravan that made its way along the Southern border and up to Washington, D.C. The Millers moved South, finding refuge in the scenic northern Mexican wine country, founding a winery and building a hacienda-style inn in their son’s memory.

Hope for Sicilia lay in action, speaking out to condemn senseless bloodshed on both sides of the border. The Millers followed their son’s passion to Mexico, settling in the wine country their son so greatly loved.

These are only a few of the faces that make up my most lingering memories of California.

On the eve of my graduation and impending departure for the East Coast, I intended to use this column to transcribe what I could of my California love story.

That can wait. Instead, I’ll leave this column open, my time at UCLA a chapter in a story I’m certain will bring me back to California again.

*Hostetter was managing editor from 2013-2014, opinion editor from 2012-2013 and assistant opinion editor and assistant news editor from 2011-2012.*
