---
layout: columns
title:  "Emilio Ronquillo: Seeing the 'hallowed' in the harried"
name: "emilio"
categories:
- columns
---

November 9, 2013. I exploded up and out of my failed all-nighter attempt in a cold-sweat. The 6:20-something alarm achieved what 20-some missed phone calls could not: awaken me for a 5 a.m. road trip to Tucson, Ariz. for UCLA football coverage.

I threw dress clothes into a paper bag and scrambled for my backpack, set on greeting two photographers and a fellow beat writer outside of my apartment complex.

Upon sprinting for the door, I realized that I didn’t know the location of my game press pass. Five to seven minutes of tearing through my room and bag later, I recovered the creased and worn slab of cardboard from my backpack’s rear pocket.

Victory proved fleeting. My nearly lifeless phone confirmed what I did not see on the street – the carpool had rightfully left some time ago.

Much of a 500-mile solo journey down the 10 Freeway took me through barren landscapes and after just three hours of sleep, my foggy brain was ripe for another folly.

I pulled into a gas station a few hours into the trip then killed the ignition, set my keys down, locked the car and stepped out into Indio, Calif.

I closed the door, leaving my keys inside.

An unfolded paperclip jammed into a door keyhole simply bloodied up my finger.

Because I was thirty minutes away from the area where the locksmith usually operated, it took a couple of calls to confirm that the place where I was stranded actually existed.

Salvation cost $156, an amount I wasn’t sure I could pay, since my wallet had been sitting out-of-sight in the car.

***

Just after dark, I parked in a neighborhood a mile out from Arizona Stadium and power-walked my way into the press box more than an hour before kickoff.

In an unexpected turn of events, my story basically wrote itself: Freshman linebacker Myles Jack became a two-way national sensation with a 66-yard touchdown rush. I even notched a win in the post-game media huddle, having to remind Jack of the name of Keenan Graham, the defensive end whose block sprang Jack into superstardom.

Apparently oblivious to all the misfortune I created, I elected to return to Westwood immediately. Wars with blunders gave way to a battle with drowsiness.

But after a nap in an Arizona supermarket parking lot, some self-administered punches to the face and up to an hour of yelling songs interspersed with gibberish, I made it back to bed.

I completed perhaps as incompetent a day ever experienced by a member of the Daily Bruin.

***

The constant threat of mistakes and missed opportunities defined much of my four years at the Daily Bruin. I rarely chose to read print or online versions of stories that I copy edited or wrote.

As a copy editor, there always existed the potential of thinking up a wittier or more accurate headline post-production, or spotting a mangled representation of Associated Press style or the English language. Being a sports writer, there was always a worthy observation that didn’t make it into the story, a better way to write the beginning and end.

As my senior year wound down, I began to laugh at those problems. I still flirt with and outright defy deadline through text messages to my editor that redefine “15 minutes” to mean “an hour,” and I’ll need to address those issues in any kind of future I have.

But no matter how deep and often those issues cut into me, their importance feels so minuscule in comparison to that of putting timeless feelings and moments into words that allow people to empathize with and appreciate those around them.

The very real prospect of being fired over a possible game absence never took root in my head during that Arizona odyssey. All I thought about through those humbling mishaps was doing what I naturally wanted: to tell a story as well as I could, no matter how long I took or how often I tripped myself up.

In a lot of ways, that was Daily Bruin life. Those four years were never consumed by concerns about impressing anyone, how many dollars and grade points I didn’t earn, or even the building of a career.

Sharing in the human experience, by listening to and preserving stories of journalists and athletes alike that often go overlooked or completely untold, provided all I needed to arrive at a life calling on my own.

***

A day after getting back, I looked at my game wrap in the Monday newspaper. The word “hollow” was mistakenly printed as “hallowed” somehow in the editing of my first few paragraphs.

Should I ever need to remind myself what my Daily Bruin career meant to me, I’d defer to the word choice which immortalized one last mistake in print.

“Hollow”?

An inaccurate description.

“Hallowed?"

Absolutely.

*Ronquillo was sports senior staff from 2013-2014, slot editor in 2013, sports contributor from 2011-2013, copy editor from 2011-2012 and copy contributor in 2010.*
