---
layout: columns
title:  "Stephen Stewart: The perks of majoring in English"
name: "stephen"
categories:
- columns
---

You should major in English.

Why? Let me tell you a quick story.

I was sitting nervously in a conference room in the world’s largest accounting firm waiting for my third consecutive interview with the company when the senior manager walked into the room.

He sauntered in, mentioned that it had been a long day and that he would go easy on me. Lounging in his seat, he picked up my resume, scanned it and then paused.

“You’re an English major,” he said. I nodded nervously.

He leaned forward. “This is why we need more English majors in accounting,” he said.

We proceeded to have a 30-minute conversation about how the accounting industry needs English majors. In the world’s largest accounting firm. It was awesome.

These days, common knowledge dictates that the STEM majors are where the jobs are, that the humanities are fading and that majoring in the humanities will lead to certain unemployment. My younger brothers were the first to assure me that the English-major factory opening down the street would hire me when I graduated.

There is a comic that sums this up – it’s called “Perks of Being an English Major.” In it, the character uses his English major prowess to pick up all the girls by reading poetry, get all the jobs, analyze Shakespeare for the president and earn mountains of cash.

The irony in the comic is painful, as I wish it was true. Throughout my career here as a UCLA undergraduate, I have been well aware that no one is going to hire me to read and analyze Shakespeare. Trust me, I wish.

But that’s the problem with the common perception of the English major and the humanities in general. There is a commonly held belief that a degree in English will only open the pathway to very specific jobs such as teaching or publishing, much like an engineering degree will lead to a job as an engineer.

I believe that’s the wrong way to view an English degree. Yes, I am an English student because I love to read and analyze literature, but at the same time, I am a competent writer and a skilled communicator. That’s what my major has taught me.

As I sat in the conference room with the senior manager that day, those are the skills he was so excited to see in me. Those skills are what make English, and the humanities, valuable as majors.

I admit that I am starting a career in tax accounting, utilizing my accounting minor more than my English major immediately upon graduation. However, I believe my major is what set me apart from all the other applicants. My skills as an English student are in high demand. As an added bonus, there will be a time when someone is needed to analyze a Shakespeare sonnet and I’ll be there to step in and save the day.

And that’s why you should be an English student.

As a non sequitur, my thanks to every person over the past four years who has edited my writing, be it a Daily Bruin article or an essay. It only took me four years to learn how to properly use a comma.

*Stewart was senior staff from 2013-2014, assistant graphics editor from 2012-2013, a graphics contributor from 2011-2012 and a news reporter from 2010-2012.*
