---
layout: columns
title:  "Submission: Tackle challenges to become the best citizens"
name: "profchwe"
categories:
- columns
---

After my college graduation ceremony, I was packing up my dorm room, feeling a little down. I was relieved to have graduated, but I didn’t really feel that I had become the person I had expected to be: knowledgeable, confident and mature. I didn’t feel that different.

I was packing away my notes from my freshman classes and started flipping through them. I began to feel better. At one time I had thought this material difficult, but now I felt it was OK, something I could get through. 

In other words, the main thing I learned from my undergraduate education was simply that I could confront challenges, one way or another, with enough effort and patience.

But as I go through life now, I realize that I might never become the knowledgeable, confident and mature person I had envisioned becoming.

Life is less about achievements and more about welcoming new challenges and learning how to overcome them.

Every experience I have had – from finishing graduate school, landing a first job, becoming a father and to sending my own children off to college – has helped me become a little bit better at dealing with new challenges. 

Graduating from college is a great achievement, but what I would say to new graduates is that your challenges are just beginning.

Your generation will face many obstacles in addition to the standard life tasks of establishing careers and families. You will have to clean up after the irresponsible actions of your elders: not just their environmental degradation and carbon emissions, but also their warmongering and creation of hostility which provides selfish short-term gains at the expense of long-term peace.

You will have to ensure, in the course of your lifetimes, that everyone in the world has access to the basic requirements for well-being, including education, housing and food – a task at which your elders have been very slow. You will have to fulfill the promise of equal opportunity for people of all races, religions, gender identities and sexual orientations. The public schools in my hometown in Alabama are more segregated in 2014 than when I went to high school in 1981. You will have the chance to break the back of narrow-mindedness and nativism in the U.S., and fulfill its promise as a country that welcomes all immigrants and cultures.

Your generation has all these challenges, but you also have a lot of advantages. Maybe it is because of social media or a generally more communicative spirit, but from what I can tell, people in your generation are much better at supporting each other.

Your generation is leading the anti-bullying movement. Your generation is taking the lead in calling out cowards who try to harass women into silence.

Young adults today are also supporting each other to fight against gender norms. Michael Sam, the first openly gay player in the NFL, came out at the age of 24 before he was even drafted. He would not have taken that step without the full support of his college teammates.

In retrospect, it makes perfect sense that a 24-year-old would have more social support from his college teammates, coaches and family than established middle-aged players, who are used to an older, less enlightened environment. In turn, Sam supports millions of young kids, straight and queer, looking to see how they will fit into society.

As you leave UCLA to face new challenges, please remember your UCLA family. We stand by you. We faculty always enjoy hearing from former students, even after many years have passed.

We wish you the best. We need you to be the best.

*Dr. Michael Chwe is a professor of political science at UCLA.*
