---
layout: columns
title:  "Submission: Preserving the student movement, drive for change"
name: "john"
categories:
- columns
---

Four years ago, I could never have imagined the life-changing experiences I would have at this university – the opportunities, the people and the love I’ve developed for this campus continue to grow to new heights with each passing day.


While I was growing up, I would never have imagined attending a prestigious university like UCLA, let alone being your undergraduate student body president. My mother – a beautiful, strong and resilient woman – raised me, but she had to immigrate from her home thousands of miles away just to provide my sister and me the opportunity to pursue an education.

I am here today because of this act; I am a firm believer in public education and the marked difference it makes for millions of students. I am one of those students.

These past four years have challenged me to think critically about the direction of our university and the current trajectory of public higher education in California. We are students in an era when education has been deprioritized by our state and nation, and when tuition costs are at an all-time high. This university, our university, continually faces challenges of diversity, safety and inclusion.

This not only affects us today, but poses many challenges in the years to come. We have seen the crippling effects of voter-passed initiatives such as Proposition 209 and Proposition 13, which have significantly harmed the diversity of our student body and hindered our ability to secure sustainable funding for the UC, respectively.

In our UCLA community – one of lifelong learners, world-class athletes and passionate activists – we are all the innovators who create solutions to improve society for the better. From working on issues of access to education and anti-war efforts in the '60s and '70s, to pushing for holistic admissions and civil rights, students have historically played a critical role in steering our university in a socially responsible direction. Today, by being Bruins, we have accepted a collective responsibility to challenge ourselves, and others, to strive for social, spiritual, cultural, academic and political empowerment. Too often do we silence ourselves from addressing real, sometimes controversial, issues for the sake of not inconveniencing others.

UCLA is often heralded as one of the premier public institutions in the world. Bruins create groundbreaking research. We are world-class athletes, top scholars and activists who are changing the conversations both inside and outside the classroom. Yet what distinguishes UCLA from other universities is our commitment to public service and our accountability to the Los Angeles and California communities.

We are students who continue to make progress. But to continue moving forward, student leadership must reflect those values of respect, accountability, integrity and public service. Although we faced many challenges, your student government was able to accomplish incredible things this past year, including initiating nationally recognized campaigns to raise awareness and take action on issues such as sexual assault and the school-to-prison pipeline, raising over $12,000 for those affected by Typhoon Haiyan, and expanding crucial student services.

However, we know that safety, access, retention and the well-being of our students continue to face many attacks, and there is significant room for improvement. The challenge we face today is whether we will shy away from addressing these issues, or tackle them head on.


Nothing is more important than the passion, love and drive that pushes the student movement, whether that comes from the Undergraduate Students Association Council or not. I believe that USAC is a place where I found my inner voice, and I only hope it continues to be more than a student government, but a place where others can find their inner voice and harness their agency to move our campus and community forward.


It has been a true honor to serve you this past year. Thank you for an incredible year. I wish you all the best in your future endeavors. Congratulations to the class of 2014, and go Bruins!

*John Joanino was the Undergraduate Students Association Council president from 2013-2014.*
