---
layout: columns
title:  "Jillian Beck: Remembering the ups and downs"
name: "jillian"
categories:
- columns
---

It’s always been hard for me to leave the Daily Bruin office.

Three years ago, I started as a reporter and every day I would sit in Kerckhoff 118 on the couch in the news section. I’d watch the editors type furiously at their keyboards, staffers from all sections running around the newsroom, talking to sources on phones and designing layouts. I could feel an energy buzzing in the office.

There I’d sit, engrossed, taking it all in. Like most underclassmen, I had been desperately searching for my place at UCLA and once I had found it, you couldn’t pry me away.

After those first couple of months, the Daily Bruin office was the only place I wanted to be. Between classes I’d be there, absorbing the atmosphere, eagerly studying student government documents and budgets and reading the day’s paper, hoping to learn as much as I could so I could be a part of the newsroom.

People would tell me to leave the office, to stay away while I could, before I was an editor and had to spend all of my time there.

Three years later, I’m a little less eager and lot more tired, but I’m still in love with the Daily Bruin.

This year has been a rough one, undoubtedly one of the hardest for the Daily Bruin as an institution.

In the face of drastic declines in advertising revenues, we lost our invaluable adviser and made other cutbacks. We battled threats to our editorial independence and fought against attempted censorship.

Still, even on the toughest days, I never wanted to leave. That’s the beautiful thing about working for a daily newspaper – you get to come back the next day and try to do better.

Looking back on these three years with clear eyes makes it harder to leave now.

I remember the delirious late nights spent putting together special issues, racing to make printer deadline.

I remember live-tweeting student government meetings for hours, and the feeling of fulfillment when students appreciated the information and cared.

I remember the emails I received, every so often, from sources or readers touched by a story.

I remember seeing myself in the newly accepted interns’ faces, and knowing what was in store for them.

I remember first meeting the coworkers who have turned into lifelong friends.

And now, as I write my final piece for The Bruin, the last time my name will appear in these pages, I can’t help but stall. It has taken me a long time to finally get myself to write this, and I wasn’t sure why until now.

Sure, it’s hard for me to write without the pressure of an approaching deadline, but that’s beside the point.

I haven’t wanted to write this column because when I’m done it means I’ll have to leave for good this time. I’m worried about the future. I don’t know what’s coming next for me – or the Daily Bruin.

The day-to-day ups and downs of producing a newspaper have been an amazing yet insanely bumpy ride. And I wouldn’t change a second of it.

But, I’d better go. It looks like they’re kicking me out of the office again ...

*Beck was editor in chief from 2013-2014, assistant news editor from 2012-2013 and a news reporter from 2011-2012.*
