---
layout: columns
title:  "Eileen Tran: Class dismissed in Kerckhoff 118"
name: "eileen"
categories:
- columns
---

Imagine being in the same room for four years, reading day in and day out.

Your required reading is a queue of stories each ranging from 500 to 1000 words, give or take. Instead of writing papers, you’re writing headlines. Your assignments are to polish and perfect each story by checking facts, grammar and style before submitting it.

As a copy editor, you’re thrown into the deep end. It’s one of those jobs where each task has a lengthy description of its own. Copy editing requires paying attention to detail for mistakes and looking at the big picture before sending it off for print.

During my first few months as a contributor, I had no idea what I was doing. I opened a new article to edit, usually an opinion piece or coverage of a new Hammer or Getty exhibit, and relied on Google to give me the answers. I stayed far away from things I didn’t know: sports, news and, in the beginning, other editors.

Little did I know, those two sections would come to be my favorites and I would end up an editor for three years.

In a normal class, reading about confusing or uninteresting topics would trigger an automatic reaction: closing the book and saving it for “later.” But at The Bruin, I would attempt to edit a baseball wrap or coverage on divestment and exhaust every resource I had to make sure I understood, word for word, what I was reading. Naturally, the knowledge would pile up and I would constantly have to modify what I learned and then teach it to incoming contributors and staff. Camayak is the new K4. Pac-10 is now Pac-12. For football, the higher score belongs to UCLA instead of USC.

The tables turned as I tried to transform the newsroom into my own classroom as Copy chief. There are always new faces in the office, a staff that you need to train for a new year of production and a new obstacle that needs to be overcome. But as we tried to push out better and faster content for our readers, it placed a bigger burden on the people in my section, one I didn’t want to overwhelm them with. It was asking a lot from a staff that was still learning how to use a new program and meeting a print deadline.

We are still, first and foremost, students all learning to become better journalists, and I did my best to create a work environment that encompassed that idea despite the time pressure.

Beyond editing, I spent four years meeting and working with some of the most dedicated and intelligent people. When you spend your time reading stories about amazing individuals on campus, it’s not hard to remember that your coworkers have one of their own to tell.

As the year winds down and I reflect on my time in Kerckhoff, I’d like to think I know what I’m doing now. I had some big shoes to fill as Copy chief thanks to Kristine. But if there’s one person to thank for this entire experience, it’s her. Thanks for recruiting me as soon as I set foot on campus. Now four years have flown by, but the truth is time slows down for no one (and trust me, nobody knows that better than Copy).

The last article has been edited, the final shift completed, and my job has been passed down. The learning never stopped and it probably never will. Here’s to my first and final byline at The Bruin. I’m going to walk through the office doors once more, and maybe, I'll leave on time.

*Tran was copy chief from 2013-2014, assistant copy chief from 2012-2013, a slot editor from 2011-2012 and a copy editor from 2010-2011.*
