---
layout: columns
title:  "Taylor Aquino: Share diverse experiences that define you"
name: "taylor"
categories:
- columns
---

I want to tell you a story. And then I want you to forget it.

Nearly three years ago, I drove the 10 Freeway from the East Coast to the West Coast carrying everything I thought I would need from my hometown of Jacksonville, Fla., to the sunny, breezy hills of Westwood. Most of your stories start out this way, with a journey from home. Perhaps your daily story still starts out that way.

Regardless, we all take this journey, and in my case, I was largely defined by it.

I am still asked why I decided to attend UCLA. I still find many of my personal values stem from traditional Southern and Asian views of how people should conduct themselves. I am still a Jacksonville Jaguars fan (and a Tim Tebow fan) forever.

These elements of my life – both the facts and the questions asked of me – represent the interaction of the world I hail from with the multifarious environment of UCLA.

Perhaps the most hilarious and poignant moment of my three years at UCLA occurred not in a classroom – though you’d be surprised by some of the conversations I’ve had with professors over the years – but at a Filipino cultural fair.

As a mixed woman who grew up mostly around whites, I wanted to connect with my Filipino culture. I wanted to make up for all of those years living in whitewashed ignorance. I also wanted to belong to something else for once because I had always been mixed, had always been "other."

So I was rather disconcerted when I was asked by a full-Filipino student sitting at the sign-in table if I was “a quarter (Filipino) or just exploring?”

My half-bitter, half-amused laugh likely distracted him from the shocked expression on my face.

“I’m actually half,” I said.

I don’t remember if he apologized, and I don’t remember if I said anything else to him. I do know that I never really felt Filipino after that moment.

Maybe I can cook you Filipino food. Maybe I have relatives in Manila. Maybe I will have my grandchildren call me "Lola" one day.

When it’s all said and done, my ethnicity is not fully rooted anywhere. And the knowledge that ethnicity – like so many other categories in life – occurs on a spectrum has set me free.

I have related this story to many people in different contexts. I use it as a way to demonstrate my experience as someone with an ambiguous ethnic phenotype. I also use it to make people feel better about misidentifying me.

These contexts and my story are all words, at a certain point. The only thing that truly matters is that I am telling them to you.

You must remember the importance of the fact that I have traveled here and am writing this to you. Our world is only changed by the interaction of people with different experiences. My experience is not your experience, and the mere deliverance of that message is more of an accomplishment than any term paper or final exam.

I am writing this to you. Now forget it, go somewhere, and tell other people your story.

*Aquino was a sports reporter from 2013-2014, a news contributor from 2012-2013 and a sports contributor from 2011-2012.*
