---
layout: columns
title: "Byron Lutz: Leaving behind a lasting presence"
name: "byron"
categories:
- columns
---

The Daily Bruin office is a large, windowless, uncomfortably warm room. Its walls are covered in recent newspapers, out-of-context quotes and embarrassing Facebook photos.

Though a lot of us call this place home, nobody ever volunteers to clean it up.

If you look underneath the unused light tables and between old course readers and moldy lunches, you'll find small, forgotten mementos from past Daily Bruin staff. You might find a frantically written essay or a 10-year-old parking ticket. Or maybe an old newspaper mourning the loss of John Wooden or an email from a legendary Daily Bruin alumna.

Every time I find something like this, I imagine the office, filled with a completely different group of people developing film and cutting and pasting a newspaper together every day.

They stayed up all night in the office, argued with their colleagues and wished they didn't have to take classes, all so they could keep working to make the Daily Bruin a better newspaper.

I have no idea who most of them are or what they're doing now, but I know each of them made an impact on The Bruin and made the paper what it is today. Each of them had the same unconditional love for the newspaper that I have had for the past four years.

By the time my last design sketch or lost Panda Express chopstick is found by a future staffer, my name will be forgotten and an entirely new staff will be running the newspaper. I hope that I will have left enough behind to be a part of the newsroom and campus for years to come.

*Lutz was online senior staff from 2013-2014, web producer from 2012-2013, assistant design director from 2011-2012 and a design contributor from 2010-2011.*
