---
layout: columns
title:  "Ashley Jakubczyk: A comforting tradition in a home away from home"
name: "ashley"
categories:
- columns
---

I have this theory.

Actually, let me back up and say this first: My years at UCLA have been far from perfect. Like I’m sure any student here will tell you, this campus practically oozes with competition. Stress is evident everywhere. There are plenty of sleepless nights and failure is more common than any of us care to admit.

There’s a high level of uncertainty here. But there’s an even higher presence of magic, in all senses of the word.

At what other school do you get to have class in the world-famous Royce Hall? Who else understands the irony of Boelter Hall’s poor Internet connection? Where else can you casually strike up a conversation with John Stamos and offer him your Wi-Fi password so he can check his email? (Yes, it happened to my roommate. True story.)

Great things are always going on around here. And here at the Daily Bruin, we get to write about those things.

It’s hard to pinpoint exactly when I knew that I had a home here, in this little windowless “dungeon” in Kerckhoff 118. Working at the Daily Bruin has its demanding moments. Deadlines can be stressful, interviews can go awry and sometimes you realize you forgot to submit a photo request for your story. 

But somewhere along the line, amid the turmoil of trying to navigate the world of journalism, this place became home.

Maybe it was when I got word that I’d been selected to join the A&E team. Perhaps it was after calling my editor and successfully pitching my first story. It could have been seeing my name in print for the first time, or getting to write my first album review. There was the time I stood face to face with Brit Marling and Alexander Skarsgard and got to ask them questions – the only time I’ve ever been truly starstruck.

Each story I wrote, each late-night phone call to the Copy desk, each conversation or disagreement with my editors has become part of that home. But there’s one thing that truly reminds me of The Bruin, and I think it’s this seemingly small but extremely meaningful tradition that truly made the difference.

There’s a bit of a ritual here in the office. Each Monday before our radio show Long Story Short, we head upstairs to Baskin Robbins. Because, as a good friend of mine explained to me the first day I tagged along, Mondays just need ice cream.

Those of us who work at The Bruin hold an immense amount of passion for our work. But while the love of our craft is evident, I think the sense of home that so many of us find in Kerckhoff 118 stems from moments like Ice Cream Mondays. It lies within the late nights streaming UCLA football games from office computers while attempting to study for midterms. It comes from the annual Thanksgiving lunch feast, from heroically yet fearfully capturing bugs underneath desk lamps, and from spontaneous dorm dinners with fellow writers and editors.

There’s a lot more to a newspaper than just telling the stories – like anything in life, it’s about the experience. For me, the people I met here at the Daily Bruin were the bulk of that experience. As a journalist, I may be building a career in telling stories about other people. But these people here, in this room with walls plastered with witty quotes and ridiculous pictures – they’re an important part of my story.

What’s that? Oh, right – my theory.

So I have this theory that life significantly improves when ice cream is involved.

My time at the Daily Bruin led me to that one. And I couldn’t be more grateful – especially on Mondays.

*Jakubczyk was an A&E contributor from 2012-2014.*
